now Moses with the elders of Israel
commanded the people keep all the
commandments which I command you today
and it shall be on the day when you
cross over the Jordan to the land which
the Lord your God is giving you that you
shall set up for yourselves large stones
and whitewash them with lime you shall
write on them all the words of this law
when you have crossed over that you may
enter the land which the Lord your God
is giving you a land flowing with milk
and honey just as the Lord God of your
father's promised you therefore a child
be when you have crossed over the Jordan
that on Mount Ebal you shall set up
these stones which I command you today
and you shall whitewash them with lime
and there you shall build an altar to
the Lord your God an altar of stones you
shall not use an iron tool on them you
shall build with
old stones the altar of the Lord your
God and offer burnt offerings on it to
the Lord your God you shall offer peace
offerings and shall eat there and
rejoice before the Lord your God and you
shall write very plainly on the stones
all the words of this law then Moses and
the priests the Levites spoke to all
Israel take heed and listen o Israel
this day you have become the people of
the Lord your God therefore you shall
obey the voice of the Lord your God and
observe his Commandments and his
statutes which I command you today
and Moses commanded the people on the
same day saying these shall stand on
Mount Gerizim to bless the people when
you have crossed over the Jordan Simeon
Levi Judah Issachar Joseph and Benjamin
and these shall stand on Mount Ebal to
curse Reuben GAD Asher Zebulun Dan and
Naphtali
and the Levites shall speak with a loud
voice and say to all the men of Israel
Carthage is the one who makes a carved
or molded image an abomination to the
Lord the work of the hands of the
craftsmen and sets it up in secret and
all the people shall answer and say amen
curse it is the one who treats his
father or his mother with contempt and
all the people shall say Amen her seed
is the one who moves his neighbor's
landmark and all the people shall say
Amen
[Applause]
perced is the one who makes the blind
wander off the road and all the people
shall say Amen curse it is the one who
perverts the justice do the stranger the
fatherless and widow and all the people
shall say Amen
curse it is the one who lies with his
father's wife because he has uncovered
his father's bed and all the people
shall say Amen curse it is the one who
lies with any kind of animal and all the
people shall say Amen curse it is the
one who lies with his sister the
daughter of his father or the daughter
of his mother and all the people shall
say Amen
curr said is the one who lies with his
mother-in-law and all the people shall
say Amen curse it is the one who attacks
his neighbor secretly and all the people
shall say I'm in curse hid is the one
who takes a bribe to slay an innocent
person and all the people shall say Amen
curse it is the one who does not confirm
all the words of this law by observing
them and all the people shall say Amen